"We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play. On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change. In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about scale and efficiency, both for the software we produce as well as for the organization that is producing it. Finally, as software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth."

Conclusão: O Engenheiro de software é responsável por estimar e prever resultados de um projeto, como uma funcionalidade pode e deve ser aplicada a um projeto, levando em consideração as necessidades e adaptações (trade-offs). A diferença principal entre programação e engenharia de software é o planejamento estratégico por trás das linhas de código.


"Within Google, we sometimes say, “Software engineering is programming integrated over time.” Programming is certainly a significant part of software engineering: after all, programming is how you generate new software in the first place. If you accept this distinction, it also becomes clear that we might need to delineate between programming tasks (development) and software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance). The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren’t squares, distance isn’t velocity. Software engineering isn’t programming."

Conclusão: Analisando sob a ótica dos trade-offs, em que uma funcionalidade possui influencia sobre outra, a Engenharia de software não é igual a programação em uma conceitualizaçao generalista, ambos os conceitos são complementares, porém a engenharia possui singularidades perante a programação, como por exemplo aspectos gerenciais e escaláveis.

